## Bifrost testbenches

This directory contains some scripts to help you get up and running with the bifrost
python API. 

### Getting started

To get started, you'll first need to download/generate some data, so run:

    python generate_test_data.py

Make sure you have at least 2GB of space free. This generates binary files that are
compatible with numpy fromfile() method, which can be run through two testbenches:

    python test_file_read_write.py
    python test_fft.py

You can guess what these files do by their filenames. The first instantiates a bifrost
pipeline that reads data and writes it to file. The output is compared against a numpy
equivalent for verification. The second reads a file, does an FFT, and then writes the
output to file. Again, this is verified against a numpy-based equivalent version.

These two pipelines show the basics of how to make a pipeline using the bifrost python 
API. Make sure once you've run them to open them up and read the code -- it's simple!


### Breakthrough to the other side

Next up is doing something useful with radio astronomy data. For this, we need to 
actually have some data, so let's download (~5GB) of Breakthrough Listen data using:

    python download_breakthrough_listen_data.py

This downloads two different types of files: guppi raw data, which is voltage data from
a spectrometer (it hasn't been squared to form Stokes products yet), and then there is
filterbank data, which is Stokes I data generated by taking an FFT of the guppi raw data
and then averaging over time. 

